give hear o heavens and I will speak and
hear over earth the words of my mouth
let my teaching drop as the rain my
speech distill as the dew as raindrops
on the tender herb and as showers on the
grass for I proclaim the name of the
Lord
ascribe greatness to our God he is the
rock his work is perfect for all his
ways are justice a God of truth and
without injustice righteous and upright
is he they have corrupted themselves
they are not his children because of
their blemish the perverse and crooked
generation do you thus deal with the
Lord o foolish and unwise people is he
not your father who bought you
has he not made you and established you
remember the days of old consider the
years of many generations ask your
father and he will show you your elders
and they will tell you when the Most
High divided their inheritance to the
nation's when he separated the sons of
Adam he set the boundaries of the
people's according to the number of the
children of Israel for the Lord's
portion is his people
Jacob is the place of his inheritance he
found him in a desert land and in the
wasteland a howling wilderness he
encircled him he instructed him he kept
him as the apple of his eye as in Eagle
stirs up its nest hovers over its young
spreading out its wings taking him up
carrying them on its wings so the Lord
alone led him and there was no foreign
God with him he made him ride in the
heights of the earth that he might eat
the produce of the fields he made him
draw honey from the rock and no oil from
the flinty Rock curds from the cattle
and milk of the flock with fat lambs and
rams of the breeds of Batian and goats
with the choicest wheat and you drank
wine the blood of the grapes but yuxuan
grew fat and kicked you grew fat you
grew thick you are obese then he forsook
God who made him and scornfully esteemed
the rock of his salvation
they provoked him to jealousy with
foreign gods with abominations they
provoked him to anger they sacrificed to
demons not to God to gods they did not
know to new gods new arrivals that your
fathers did not fear of the rock who
begot you you are unmindful and have
forgotten the God who fathered you and
when the Lord saw it he spurned them
because of the provocation of his sons
and his daughters and he said I will
hide my face from them I will see what
their end will be or they are a perverse
generation children in whom is no faith
they have provoked me to jealousy by
what is not God they have moved me to
anger by their foolish idols but I will
provoke them to jealousy by those who
are not a nation I will move them to
anger by a foolish nation
for a fire is kindled in my anger and
shall burn to the lowest hell it shall
consume the earth with her increase and
set on fire the foundations of the
mountains I will heap disasters on them
I will spin my arrows on them they shall
be wasted with hunger devoured by
pestilence and bitter destruction I will
also send against them the teeth of
beasts with the poison of serpents of
the dust the swords shall destroy
outside there shall be terror within for
the young man and virgin the nursing
child with a man of gray hairs I would
have said I will dash them in pieces I
will make the memory of them to cease
from among men had I not feared the
wrath of the enemy lest their
adversaries should misunderstand lest
they should say our hand is high and it
is not the Lord who has done all this
for they are a nation void of counsel
nor is there any understanding in them
oh that they were wise that they
understood this that they would consider
their latter end how could one chase a
thousand and two for ten thousand to
flight unless their Rock had sold them
and the Lord had surrendered them for
their rock is not like our Rock even our
enemies themselves being judges for
their vine is of the vine of Sodom and
of the fields of Gomorrah their grapes
are grapes of gall their clusters are
bitter their wine is the poison of
serpents and the cruel venom of cobras
is this not laid up in store with me
sealed up among my treasures vengeance
is mine and recompense their foot shall
slip in due time for the day of their
calamity is at hand and the things to
come hasten upon them for the Lord will
judge his people and have compassion on
his servants when he sees that their
power is gone
and there is no one remaining bond or
free he will say where are their gods
the rock in which they sought refuge who
ate the fat of their sacrifices and
drank the wine of their drink offering
let them rise and help you and be your
refuge now see that I even I am he and
there is no God besides me I kill and I
make alive I wound and I heal nor is
there any who can deliver from my hand
for I raised my hand to heaven and say
as I live forever if I wet my glittering
sword and my hand takes hold on judgment
I will render vengeance to my enemies
and repay those who hate me I will make
my arrows drunk with blood and my sword
shall devour flesh with the blood of the
slain and the captives from the heads of
the leaders of the enemy
rejoice o Gentiles with his people for
he will avenge the blood of his servants
and render vengeance to his adversaries
he will provide atonement for his land
and his people so Moses came with Joshua
the son of nun and spoke all the words
of this song in the hearing of the
people moses finished speaking all these
words to all israel and he said to them
set your hearts on all the words which I
testify among you today which you shall
command your children to be careful to
observe all the words of this law or it
is not a futile thing for you because it
is your life and by this word you shall
prolong your days in the land which you
cross over the Jordan to possess then
the Lord spoke to Moses that very same
day go up this mountain of the aberrant
Mount Nebo which is in the land of Moab
across from Jericho view the land of
Canaan which I give to the children of
Israel as a possession and died on the
mountain which your scent
and be gathered to your people just as
Aaron your brother died on Mount hor and
was gathered to his people because you
trespassed against we among the children
of Israel at the waters of Meribah
Kadesh in the wilderness of zin because
you did not harm me in the midst of the
children of Israel yet you shall see the
land before you though you shall not go
there into the land which I am giving to
the children of Israel
you
[Music]